# Cervical Cancer Risk Prediction Using XGBoost Classifier
Cancer is a condition in which the cells in our body multiply and grow out of control. Cervical cancer is the fourth most common cancer in women, with a death rate of about 300,000 worldwide. The tumour develops in a woman's cervix, which is the entrance to the uterus from the vagina, and anybody with a cervix is at risk. HPV or the Human Papiloma Virus is a key factor that increases risk of cervical cancer (engaging in high sexual activity). This cancer can be prevented by PAP smear screening and a HPV vaccine.

Symptoms include bleeding in between periods and after sexual intercourse. Foul smelling white discharge and low back pain or lower abdominal pain may also occur. In some cases there may be no symptoms. Treatments include surgery, radiation and chemotherapy.

Other factors which contribute to the risk are having many children, smoking, and presence of hormones in oral contraceptives. Unlike most other forms of cancer, cervical cancer, if diagonised early can be successfully treated and eliminated. By leveraging machine learning and AI, cervical cancer can be dramatically reduced with early detection and diagnosis.

In this project, I am going to build and train an XGBoost classifier model to predict cervical cancer in 858 patients. The XGBoost algorithm, or the extreme gradient boost algorithm is a popular algorithm used for regression and classification models. The dataset has been procured from Hospital Universitario de Caracas in Venezuela. I will explore the dataset to understand what kind of information is provided in the next couple of steps. Following which I will train and XGBoost classifier and evaluate its metrics.
